For years, we have had people literally
filling out paper applications as
recently as the beginning of this year,
uh, and sending paper by postal mail and
all kinds of stuff. And we literally
have a mine in Berser, Pennsylvania, uh,
which is very fun if you ever want to
come see it. Um, where we have hundreds
of millions of file cabinets of people's
retirement records that we consult.
>> We'd love to. I would love to. I've
always wanted to go like those those
like huge like under mountain like big
like Iron Mountain. They literally bury
lot paper documents under my I'd love to
check out
>> Indiana Jones warehouse for government
bureaucracy.
>> I've always wanted to check out one of
these places. We'll we'll we'll we'll
arrange that after the episode.
>> Hello and welcome to another episode of
the OddLots podcast. I'm Joe Weisenthal
[music]
>> and I'm Tracy Aloway. Uh Tracy, one of
the topics that we like to talk about,
but we haven't talked about it for a
while, public sector tech, public sector
hiring. We've done a number of episodes
on this. It's been a while though since
we've uh revisited this question, but it
raises so many fascinating things. I
remember the ones that we did with uh
Jennifer Palcoa, which were fantastic,
and we got a a good sense of some of the
issues facing um public technology,
including
I think it was 7,000 requirements in a
single RFP. That was at the state level,
but you hear stuff like that and it just
kind of blows your mind how complex the
whole process of developing new
technology actually is in government,
>> right? And we've also Patrick McKenzie
is the other one we've talked about this
with like these legacy systems. They
have all of this cr or whatever and some
of it's tech and some of it's related to
hiring. Um I have so many everyone I
feel like comes in to you know the
public sector they're like why can't
this look more like the private sector
etc. But I have a I have an observation
that I thought about after the last time
we talked to Jennifer which again
they're excellent conversations. Maybe
we'll move the ball forward. So there
are all kinds of obvious problems with
the public sector. we'll get it to them.
That being said, and I think you had the
same experience, you [clears throat]
hear these descriptions of like say
what's a what's broken with the hiring
process and it's like, you know what,
that sounds kind of familiar. I've
experienced that in the private sector,
too. Yeah. A lot of these pathologies
seem to exist in large organizations.
>> I was going to say I think it's it's
endemic to bureaucracy, right? And I
remember Jennifer specifically saying
that like one of the main choke points
is just the operational process of
getting stuff approved or getting a new
candidate through a hiring process that
has been dictated by human resources and
you have to fit into certain slots or
certain categories. So it's a big deal.
>> But that's the the whole dealing with HR
thing and their role as gatekeepers of
the hiring process and their role.
>> I love what you say, Joe. I love our HR
people here at Bloomberg. I'm just
saying some of it sounded a little bit
familiar. That's all I'm going to I'm
going to leave it at that. Some of it
sounded a little bit familiar.
>> Fair.
>> So, of course, we know that the new
administration, of course, lots of
people from the tech world have come to
it. I think probably most famously Elon
Musk and the whole Doge endeavor, which
you know, we'll get into perhaps uh
where where we stand on the verdict for
that, but widely viewed is not
particularly transformational.
Nonetheless, a lot of like buyin, a lot
of people from the tech world thinking
about what aspects of our most dynamic
industry in America can be brought into
the public sector to perhaps make it a
more dynamic place, maybe more
efficient, maybe more effective and a
maybe a more desirable place to work for
talented people,
>> right? And the government uh the office
of personnel management is launching a
new crossgovernment program, right? to
recruit top technologists to modernize
the federal government. And I would just
add, it kind of has some new urgency
because the Trump administration has
identified the AI race with China as
like this existential threat to the US.
So you you can see stuff kind of
coalescing.
>> Totally. Well, we literally do have the
perfect guest because we are going to be
speaking with the director of the office
of personnel management in DC. We're
going to be speaking with Scott Cooper.
He's a former venture capitalist uh
who's at Andre and Horwoods. So he knows
all about the public world, the private
world, etc. Literally the perfect guest.
Scott, thank you so much for uh coming
on the OddLots podcast.
>> Well, thank you for having me. I'm glad
to be here.
>> Absolutely. Let's start from real
basics. What is the job of the office uh
the director of the office of personnel
management?
>> Yeah. Uh it's a great question and and I
didn't know the answer to this one
before I started talking to the
administration about the job either. Um
so I think the simple way to think about
it is look, we're the talent management
organization for the federal government.
So there's about 2.1 million federal
employees roughly in the government
today and we are responsible for all
policies related to people. So how do
you hire, how do you fire, performance
management uh systems, so HRIT systems
uh and then we're also uh a cross
functional organization that everything
we do obviously touches all the
different agencies. So we're trying to
make sure that we've got consistency of
policies across the government and the
simple goal in my mind is just how do we
make sure we have the right people and
the right jobs in the federal
government. That's basically the you
know forward articulation of what we do.
Why did you decide to go from Andrew
Sorowitz to um what seems like, you
know, something of a challenging job and
possibly lower paid? You don't have to
tell us your salary, but you know,
>> it's probably public somewhere, but I
assume it's definitely lower [laughter]
than it's definitely lower than a
partner at a jer.
>> Right. Right.
>> My salary is public. Uh actually, in
fact, uh you know, you know what you
know when you've hit the high point in
your life when your oldest daughter, who
is uh I won't give her age, but she is,
let's say, under 30 is making more money
than I am uh at this. Congrats to her.
So, exactly. I'm I'm very proud of her.
Um, yeah, it's a great question. Look,
the honest answer is it was a couple
things. One is just uh it was the right
time. Uh, you know, I've been in Andre,
as you know, from the founding uh for 16
years. Super proud of what we did there.
Uh, and Ben and Mark were incredibly
gracious in uh giving me this
opportunity. Um, and I really felt like
this there is an opportunity in this
administration to do something
differently. So, you mentioned a bunch
of technology people coming to the
administration. Um, there's also just a
bunch of, you know, business people more
generally. And look, we're not going to
make the mistake of applying every
private sector, you know, method and
model to the federal government. But I
think it what the president has asked us
to do is to think differently about
things and giving us kind of the
permission and the flexibility to do
that. And so to me, um, look, I I've
been around the venture capital
business, as you know, ultimately
companies succeed or fail. My lesson
from the venture capital business is
they succeed or fail almost entirely
because of the people in the
organization and the organizational
structure and the culture and the
incentives. It's pretty simple. Um, and
so my view is look, why can't we learn
uh some of those lessons and apply them
as appropriate to the federal government
and think about creating a culture where
we've got great people who can do great
stuff on behalf of the American people?
>> I want you to tell me about your new
endeavor, your new initiative to bring
in tech talent and also in the answer
maybe like situated within maybe what
makes it different from other endeavors.
What you know there was the code for
America um endeavor which you know
probably had some similar themes.
Obviously there was um the Jo experience
which I want to get into further but
talk to us about this new project.
What's what is it and then why is it
different from past efforts to infuse
technology or infuse tech thinking into
the government?
>> Yeah. So let me take you through the
program. So the program is called US
Tech Force. So anybody who's interested
can go to our X at US tech force and
find more information about it. Um
basically here's the here's the program.
The goal is to bring a thousand
engineers into the government. So, uh,
software developers, AI experts, data
scientists, product managers. So,
anybody who can help us basically with
the job of modernizing government
infrastructure. Um, it's a two-year
program and we partnered with about 25
of the largest uh, private technology
companies, private sector technology
companies I should say. Um, and we're
really trying to accomplish a couple
things here. Number one is the
government has a der of what I would
call modern software expertise and
modern AI tech, you know, technology
expertise. And that's not a knock at all
on the organizations, but a lot of what
these big CIO organizations, the
government have to do is they're
maintaining these massive legacy
infrastructures. And so the ability to
do bespoke development is quite
difficult in those organizations. So
this will be a vehicle to help them
accelerate bespoke development uh across
the entire government. The second
problem we're trying to solve is uh we
have a massive early career uh pipeline
problem in the federal government. So 7%
of the federal workforce is early
career. Let's call that less than five
or seven years of worth of work of worth
worth of work experience. Um and that
compares to about 22 23% in the
non-federal sector. So by a factor of 3
to one, the federal government is
completely failing at getting early
career people into government. And if
you look at the other end of the
spectrum, by the way, so we've got about
44% of our population that's over the
age of 50. Um and that compares with
about a third in the, you know,
non-federal workforce. So, we've got
this looming problem which is we're
going to have a ton of people, you know,
over the next 5 to 10 years who rightly
so, you know, are at retirement age and
want to go do other things. And we've
done very very little to actually
replenish the pipeline. So, this program
is really intended to do that. And and
one of the ways we're doing that is by
making it a two-year program. So, I
don't think it's reasonable for us to go
to a 22, 25, 27 year old person and say,
decide today, do you want to commit 40
years of your life to be a career public
civil servant? What I'd rather do is
expose them to the problems in
government. let them actually have a
great experience. And you know what?
Like we should convince them over time
how great this is. But you know what? If
at the end of the two-year period, they
want to go back to the private sector.
That's great. And that's why we've lined
up all these private sector partners who
are going to actually help run a job
fair for us and make sure that we have
kind of greater connectivity between the
public and private sectors.
>> Can you talk a little bit more about why
historically government roles have not
been that desirable for tech workers?
What is I assume you diagnosed the
problem before you came up with a
solution but in your view what is the
main choke point or market failure that
is leading to difficulty for the
government to recruit the kind of people
that it wants to?
>> Yeah. So I think there's a couple
problems. Uh so one is um uh it's I
think the fundamental issue quite
frankly in my mind is a messaging
problem which is I'll give you an
anecdote. Right. So when I first came
into office I've been in the office
about six months now. I met with one of
my managers in the organization who
said, "Hey, you guys are ruining
things." And I said, "What do you mean?"
And by you guys, she meant Doge. And you
know, I'm not part of Doge, but
obviously, look, I come from, you know,
I know lots of those people. And I said,
"Well, how are we ruining things?" She
said, "Well, our whole uh value prop to
employees has been come to the federal
government and have lifetime
employment." And I said, "Oh my gosh,
you're not going to like my answer
because number one, I'm going to tell
you like that's a myth and a lie that
people have been telling you. There is
no such thing as lifetime employment."
And two, I said, 'Look, that's the most
that's the worst, least compelling kind
of narrative that I've ever heard that
I'm going to go tell some 25-year-old
like that's the value proposition of
coming to work for the government. So
number one is like we have to change the
narrative. The narrative in my mind is
come work on the toughest, biggest, most
complex problems. You know, do some
public service, but then give yourself
career options and you know what, if you
want to go to the private sector after
that, you know, God bless you. That's a
perfect thing to do. So that that's part
of the problem. The other problem is the
nature of what happens in government. uh
and you know you know Jen Pa as you guys
mentioned in your intro who's like
brilliant on this stuff diagnosed it
perfectly which is so much of what
government does is it's a
compliance-based culture right it's not
just literally you know that we follow
laws but if I do something wrong you
know I'm worried about getting an
inspector general report or I'm worried
about a GAO report or I'm worried about
some congress person hauling me in front
of their committee to testify about
stuff and so the short answer as a
result is like we have a zero riskbased
culture inside of government um there's
no concept of you know you know you guys
mentioned I came to the venture capital
world you know in that world look we
take crazy risk uh because all we're
doing is trying to maximize upside
opportunity now I'm not proposing we do
that in government and I've been using
the term measured risk as a better way
to try to describe it in government but
like we have to kind of change the
culture and enable people to think about
the upside opportunity that comes from
taking modest amounts of risk and
unfortunately particularly on the
technology side of things that has not
been the case and so again if you're a
young you know early career person I
think you want to do cutting edge stuff
you want to learn things you want to
kind of go out a little bit on the risk
curve and um right now at least
historically government has not been an
amenable place for that.
>> So you mentioned that the pitch to work
in the federal government should not be
this is lifetime employment that that is
like that's not healthy for a lot of
reasons and I think a lot of people can
uh intuitively agree with it. On the
other hand, you know, you mentioned the
sort of like in the VC world, you're
always shooting for the right tail. Um,
ideally, and in public sector work, you
know, and, uh, but when you're talking
about no layoffs or lifetime employment
means like you're cutting off the left
tail just from a money standpoint, the
employee of the federal government never
has the chance to experience a right
tail outcome. The highest paid worker in
the federal government, it's a very
decent salary. But you know and then
compared to very even moderately
successful people it you know the most
senior successful person in the federal
government will make less very often
than just sort of like someone who's
hung around Google for a long time. So
like how much of the problem actually
just comes down to that simple monetary
fact.
>> So look there's no question that
compensation is relevant but I actually
think we've been overstating the nature
of that problem. So let me give you a
couple thoughts on it. So first of all,
um part of the reason why we're focused
on early career here is at least the pay
gap between private and public is a
little bit more manageable. Uh and it
just kind of it asmmptotes like
massively as you go farther through your
career. So yes, it's totally
unrealistic, you know, unless unless
you're rich and you just decide you want
to do something different. It's totally
unrealistic for us to think we're going
to compete against like a VP at Google
for a senior level executive person in
the government. So that's not even in my
mind like that's not even worth worrying
about basically because like the pay gap
is just crazy and nobody's going to do
that. But my experience at least and you
know you guys have been around a lot of
organizations is look there are some
people who are purely kind of profit
maximizing and that's great. It's not
I'm not have no normative objections to
that obviously. Um but my sense is
that's actually a relatively small
minority of the population of employees.
I think most employees come to work
every day because they're being
challenged. They're learning. They have
career development opportunities. they
work for someone who cares about their
career and they feel like, you know,
they can be rewarded when they actually
do good stuff. They feel like they're
held accountable. Like that to me is a
culture that we can create inside of the
federal government. And, you know, even
if it means yes, in in the a short
period of time, you are going to have
like a you know, remuneration challenge
relative to the private sector. But this
is also why again, just to go back to
it, this is why I think this whole
narrative of come, you know, work for
the federal government for 40 years to
me is just crazy. Like we should have an
open idea that you can go back and forth
between the public and private sector.
And you know what? If you have points in
your life where you think like profit
maximization is the most important
thing, then yes, like you should go to
the private sector because the
government's never going to deal with
that. But I think we just have to break
this like to me this dichotomy that
there's one way to go or the other makes
no sense. So look, in the perfect world,
I'd wave a magic wand and say we pay
everybody like what they can get paid at
Google. But that's not realistic. And
quite frankly, as you know, there's
there's zero support in Congress for
that. Um the final thing we can do
though just uh Joe to give you one last
perspective is we can do things inside
of OPM to mitigate some of the
challenges on the compensation side of
things. So let me give you a very
specific example. So as you probably
know there's a GS schedule which is like
everybody gets paid you know GS1 through
15. These are different levels. Um today
all those GS schedules are driven off of
tenure and they're driven off of degree
requirements. So, if I don't have a
college degree and I haven't worked for
10 years, no matter how good I am, I
can't get to a GS-15 level in in
government. Uh, in my mind, that's just
silly, quite frankly, right? That's the
opposite of a merit-based culture. Um,
you all will remember since we've talked
Doge, right? You'll remember, I won't
mention his name, but you know, there's
a Doge engineer with a very colorful
name, uh, that I'm sure your listeners
have heard of. Um, you know, when all
the kind of exciting Doge stuff was
happening, there was a quote from an
administration official who said, "This
guy's terrible. but we never would have
hired him because he didn't graduate
from college and he didn't have whatever
5 years of work experience coming here.
And in my mind, like I literally wanted
to pull my hair out when I heard that
because I was like, that's the craziest
thing in the world. Like if if this guy
is capable of performing at a GS15
level, why should we care about what his
tenure is or whether he has a college
degree? And so one of the things we're
doing inside of OPM is we're going to
eliminate all degree requirements and
all tenure requirements in the pay
schedule. And so as a result, if someone
is doing awesome like we can hire them
at the at the appropriate level. So some
of the pay gap problem is not just a
numerical problem, it's a leveling
problem. And I think we can solve that
even in the absence of congressional
legislation.
>> Yeah, I remember Jennifer again said
something very similar about like the
best coder in America or a young guy who
had won this huge coding competition and
then couldn't get hired by the
government because he didn't tick all of
the official boxes. Kind of crazy
>> for that specific role. Yeah, since you
mentioned uh doing awesome, how do you
actually go about evaluating the
performance of a tech worker in
government and how do you figure out
which people you actually want to hire
in terms of talent?
>> Yeah. So, um the short answer is we have
to do it differently from how we do it
today. But let me give you the very
specifics. So, on the front end, uh
historically we have relied on
selfattestation of skills in order to
hire people into the federal government.
So I apply for a software engineering
job and I get this application where I
check boxes and I say you know what I'm
an expert in Pearl programmer. I'm I'm
an expert in you know AI technology and
I literally check the boxes and that is
the basis on which like my application
gets through or doesn't get through to
the next round of screening.
>> Um
>> I assume this is test for me point
though right there's some sort of
competency test.
>> So in many roles there's not and the
reason is let me give you a perspect
there's a historical reason for this. So
way back when we used to have literally
a civil service exam. It was called PACE
was the name. I forget what the what the
acronym stands for but it was PACE. That
existed until uh 1980. And there was a
lawsuit at the very tail end of the
Carter administration, very beginning of
the Reagan administration, first Reagan
administration where there was disperate
imperate impact claim basically. So the
kind of test results on this exam were
disproportionately negative for minority
applicants versus majority applicants.
And so in 1981, the government entered
into a consent decree uh where basically
they banned uh essentially the use of
these examinations. And from 1981 until
literally 4 months ago, we were living
under that consent decree. Nobody ever
revisited it. And as a result, every
agency was terrified to use any kind of
actual merit-based assessment for hiring
because they were afraid they would run
a foul of this consent decree. Um,
luckily for us, we revisited it along
with uh the Department of Justice and we
got out of the consent decree. We
actually found the original plaintiff
actually was still alive. Lovano was his
name and uh we actually, you know,
finally said, "Okay, 43 years later, we
think it's time to get rid of this
consent decree." And and they agreed to
that. So for the first time ever now we
have kind of avoided we've eliminated
the risk that the agencies were worried
about which is if I use a technical
assessment to judge somebody in their
employment process I might get sued you
know under some type of disparate impact
theory. So we are now doing that. So
number one to answer your there's a long
way to answer your question but so like
the way we're going to evaluate people
is they actually have to demonstrate
merit. So there's lots of private sector
tests as you probably know, code signal,
all these other things that every single
private sector company uses where
they're like, hey, basically let me give
you a coding test if you're applying for
a software development job and then we
can level you and figure out are you a,
you know, GS5 or GS15 based on that and
then we can do secondary stuff like
obviously an in-person interview or
other things to make sure that you know
you're actually a good fit for the
organization.
>> So that's kind of thing number one we
have to do on the front end. Uh does
that make sense at least and kind of you
know a little bit of a perspective?
>> It totally does. It is kind of wild to
think that, you know, last year or a few
years ago um or just four months ago,
Joe and I could literally [laughter] say
that we're like coding experts.
>> I'm a 10x engineer.
>> Yeah, that's right. And apply.
>> I know.
>> I'm I'm a cobalt expert. Cobalt. Cobalt.
I can never remember.
>> Cobalt cobalt expert would be very much
in demand. It's cobalt. Cobalt. No, but
cobalt is cobalt is the mineral. There's
a cobalt mineral and there's a cobalt
cobalt. Yeah.
>> I never know if it's cobble. I want to
say cobble because it's like cobbled
together across IT systems, but cobalt.
>> Oh, that's actually really good. Okay. I
didn't think about that. Okay.
>> But on the second part of Tracy's
question. Okay. So, once they're in once
they're in the office and again, because
it's not a for-profit entity, like how
do we current how does the government
currently go about evaluating how
someone did this year and what would be
the optimal way for the government to
evaluate how productive someone there is
in their state? And for just to just to
>> I understand this is a problem in
private sector too. I'm pretty sure that
if you went into Facebook or Google etc.
they would also not have a clean answer
of like which software engineer is more
productive or contributed more value
than the other one.
>> Yeah. No, you're absolutely right. Look,
this is not a problem that's unique to
the government. But what I think is
unique to the government is historically
basically everybody gets an A in
government. Um and so uh to give you a
perspective, most agencies rank people
one through five at the end of the year
on their performances, one being the
worst and five being the best. And if
you look, uh historically over long
periods of time in government, about 80
plus percent of people get ranked a four
or a five. Okay. So meaning basically,
you know, everybody is in you know kind
of, you know, Lake Wagon. Yeah. And well
well above average and then about 0.2%
of federal workers get ranked on one or
a two, meaning that you're performing
below expectations. Um so number one
like we've had no system that actually
uh recognizes like outstanding
performance and quite frankly
unfortunately no system that actually
holds accountability on the other end of
the spectrum. Um we're changing that uh
you know kind of we've already put out
regulations for the most senior
executives what are called the SCES
which are the most senior executives
where we effectively uh for the SCES
have put out a regulation that requires
a forced distribution so a cap of 30% of
fours and five rankings uh which we
think is appropriate to actually
distinguish people you know in terms of
their performance. So number one is we
got to reform the system uh period and
we're working on that and you'll see
more regulation from us on that. Uh
number two, you're actually right, which
is look like sometimes the metrics are
hard, right? So, you know, you don't
really want to measure like lines of
code that somebody produces because
obviously all code is not created equal.
>> But um you know what I think does work
in the private sector is look, managers
are responsible for their frontline
workers. They meet with them one-on-one.
They have you know weekly they have a
sense of what they're doing. They
provide feedback along the way. Like I
think the performance management ongoing
process works better in the private
sector. in the p in the public sector
what I found is instead of managers we
use the term supervisor which I think
actually unfortunately does a disservice
to what the job is like I don't think
the job is necessarily supervision the
job is to manage meaning are they
working on the right stuff are they
doing the right things do they need
training for this kind of stuff and
historically we haven't done a great job
on that so one of the things that we
just did for example is we just rolled
out a brand new training program that's
mandatory for all supervisors specific
to this issue on performance management
so to teach them like what does a
one-on-one look like Um, you know, those
of us who grew up in the technology
industry, the first book that we were
all assigned to read was, uh, Andy
Groves, Only the Paranoids Survive, uh,
which I still think is a fantastic book.
Uh, I don't know if you all have read
it. It's actually a really basically I
have read it. I Yeah, keep going.
>> Yeah. I mean, basically, he literally
talks about like what is a one-on-one
meeting with your, you know, uh, team
member? Like what should it look like?
And it's like, you know, it's very much
like management 101 stuff, but I think
the honest answer is like most people
don't get that training. Um and so as a
result we have had a performance
management culture where we have
inflated grades and we have basically
once or maybe maximum twice a year
people actually get feedback. So it's
totally unfair to the employee and it's
also just unfair to top performers who
are not actually getting differentiated
reviews and differentiated compensation.
>> I was just about to ask just to be 100%
clear compensation is going to be tied
to performance.
>> Correct. Okay.
>> Correct.
>> Yes. All right.
>> Yes. And and again, it's not that it
hasn't been before, but the problem is
if everybody's a four and a five and you
have a finite bonus pool,
>> then you're peanut buttering out the
bonuses basically. So like again, just
you know, Tracy, just to give you a
sense, like when we gave guidance on
this SCES, these very senior executives
where we said there's a 30% cap. We also
said we think 60% of the bonusbased
compensation should go to those that 30%
of the individuals. And you know that's
a you know we can argue whether it's 60%
or 80% but the point is like let's let's
actually really pay for performance and
let's differentiate compensation as
opposed to giving everybody a $300 or
$500 bonus which in the scheme of things
has little retentive or incentive value
for employees. So you mentioned project
management just then and I was looking
at some of the press releases and
documentation that you put out as part
of this program and there really is an
emphasis on getting project managers and
I am very curious why that particular
role seems to be in short supply because
I know someone who moved from a
completely different industry into
project management for a graphic design
company. they had never done it before
and it didn't seem that hard. [laughter]
>> Okay, so I'm going to distinguish
between project management and product
management which is I think we I hope we
wrote product management in the uh in
our
>> Oh, did I misread it?
>> So,
>> oops.
>> Well, I don't know that you did or not.
We may have we may have put it in there,
but um so when I what what we need is
what I what I would call a product
manager job, which is, you know, a a
product manager in my mind is basically
somebody who sometimes they come from an
engineering background. They might
actually have been developers
themselves, but they're kind of people
who sit between the engineering
organization and the end user customer.
And they listen to the customer and say,
"Great, okay, tell me your problems.
What are you trying to solve?" And their
job is kind of to translate that into
ultimately in in tech speak what we
would call a PRD, a project requirements
document for the engineers to develop
against. Um, so like that's the role we
need. So in a well functioning
engineering organization, you have
developers, you have designers, uh, and
then you have product managers. and the
product managers probably aren't putting
their hands on the keyboard actually you
know you know typing you know ones and
zeros but they are literally that go
between uh between like the end user
customer and then the requirements that
ultimately drive the development
process. It's interesting. I feel like
that's something I've really come to
appreciate in working for a large
organization, how valuable translation
skills are because you have this one
part of the room that knows one very
specific thing and then there's these
generalists on the other end that have
some vague thing and that person who can
sit in the middle and talk to both sides
is clearly a very um is a valuable
person, you know. So you mentioned like
the one thing that comes up a lot uh in
a common theme on our podcast is like
the importance of the sort of like tacit
organizational knowledge things that are
like cannot simply be written down. They
do not exist necessarily in one person's
head. They're just things that are sort
of collectively known process knowledge
and so forth. How do you think about
that in light of the fact that these are
two-year roles? And you know, again,
maybe in some cases someone will uh do
two years then continue their career in
the federal government. But that but you
know, especially given the pay gap that
emerges specifically for technologists,
like that's probably you're you're
taking on the one area where the pay gap
probably gets the widest over time. How
do you think about fostering um
fostering and maintaining that kind of
knowledge, especially given what you
laid out at the very beginning, which is
this sort of I don't know if crisis is
the right word, but these looming
retirements of all these people that do
have years of accumulated knowledge
about how things really work.
>> Yeah. So, uh you're absolutely right,
which is look, we have to balance kind
of the two-year time period against the
need for actually the organization being
able to maintain these systems once
people leave. So let me just give I'll
give you a real world example Joe just
so you have it because it might be
helpful. So um in my organization OPM we
own the retirement process and
retirement for you know several million
aduitants basically who have you know
kind of completed their professional
careers and we are complet it's a very I
won't go into the details I won't bore
you but there's literally it's a like
ridiculously manual paperbased process
where for years we have had people
literally filling out paper applications
as recently as beginning of this year uh
and sending paper by postal mail and all
kinds of stuff and we literally have a
mine in Berser
uh which is very fun if you ever want to
come see it. Um where we have hundreds
of millions of file cabinets of people's
retirement records that we'd love to I
would love to I've always wanted to go
like those those like huge like under
mountain like big like Iron Mountain
they literally bury lot paper documents
under I'd love to check out
>> Indiana Jones warehouse for government
bureaucracy.
>> I've always wanted to check out one of
these places. We'll we'll we'll we'll
arrange that after the episode.
>> All right. We're we're going to we're
going to work on that one together. Um
anyways, I bring that up to say, okay,
so look, we've uh luckily uh we've had a
small team of developers, uh Joe Jebia,
who you guys may recognize that name.
He's a co-founder for Airbnb. Um he
joined the administration even actually
before I got there, but he's been he's
been kind of housed in OPM and he has
like a team of like three developers and
you know a a design person and they've
been completely redesigning this
retirement application. So we now have
what we call OA the online retirement
application where instead of paper
people actually can go you know in the
year 2025 onto a you know computer and
and you know type in their their
information upload their documents it
gets routed to the HR and it's you know
it's you know vastly better than what
we've had. Um so I bring this up to say
look I think this is me as a good
example which is all those people are
going to disappear at some point in time
and then the responsibility for that
application is going to shift to the
existing CIO organization within OPM to
maintain it to integrate with other
systems and so a requirement of being
able to do that development process for
Joe and his team is look they have to do
documentation they have to do training
of the team um and so look I think it's
not an insurmountable problem I just
think it means as part of your process
you just have to anticipate that there
is going to be a time where people are
going disappear and quite frankly it's a
smart thing to do anyways because we
just know and look this happens in
private companies all the time look
people's average tenure in private
companies I can tell you in Silicon
Valley it's way less than four years is
what the average tenure of an engineer
is so these are not new things they are
new things to the government which is
this idea of kind of knowledge capture
and knowledge management uh you know
kind of in light of the fact that people
might not be there for their entire
career but I think it just means as
we've designed this program that we have
to have the appropriate level of
documentation of integration of source
code notes and all those things that are
you know you would do in a normal
circumstanc chance to recognize that.
Now look, Joe, in the perfect world, you
know, I hope people love it and they're
like, "Wow, this is this is exactly
where I want to spend the rest of my
life." And that's awesome. If they want
to do that, like we want to keep them in
government, but you know, I think we're
also have to deal with the practical
realities that the you know, the current
generation of, you know, people are not
thinking about, you know, three, five,
10 year, you know, uh, employments.
Basically things things are much more
fluid than that.
>> What are you doing to streamline the
operational side of the process? Because
I imagine you mentioned culture before.
If the pitch is come work for
government, it's important, but you're
going to be lower paid and you're going
to have to constantly deal with
paperwork and put together, you know,
RFPs that have 7,000 requirements and
things like that. That that's a tough
cell to someone who's used to the whole
move fast and break things culture.
>> Yeah. So anyways, let let me just be
totally clear uh which is we are not
going to move fast and break things uh
because uh we can't quite do that in
government. We can move faster than we
currently do and we can afford to take
some risks but uh we generally don't
want to break things uh because uh you
know people do need to get their social
security checks and you know the IRS
needs to actually make sure you get your
tax refund. So um but it's a great it's
a great question. So look there's a
couple things that we're doing both
inside and outside this program. So
outside the program more generally one
of the big things that OPM is driving
along with OM you know kind of the
office of management budget is uh we're
working with all the agencies to
basically what I would call do headcount
planning and reshape the priorities for
the organization. So there's a huge
amount of government is very good about
adding things to the plate and they're
very bad about actually ever taking
anything off. So every time something
new comes down from Congress, we add,
you know, thousands of more people. We
add stuff to the plate. And then we have
this list now of 20 things, probably
five of which we've been doing for 20
years. And quite frankly, nobody even
remembers why we're doing them anymore.
Uh they've just now become like, you
know, embedded into our culture. So part
of the exercise in order to kind of make
the throughput faster and to make sure
that an engineer isn't like sitting on
their hands dealing with, you know,
crazy bureaucracy is we have to go back
and look at prioritization and actually
remove services that are no longer
statutory and they're no longer valuable
to the American people. So that's the
exercise we've started. That's the
exercise that we're kind of is ongoing
right now. But the purpose of that will
be not only to make sure that we're
hopefully spending our money in the
right places, but we'll also be to
remove layers that ultimately slow down
the actual work product of government.
The second thing we can do is um as I
mentioned, we're we're really trying to
kind of change the performance
management culture in government and
eliminate barriers to people being able
to move through the organization and
change the idea that you can't take any
risk. I mean, obviously that's a big
cultural challenge that we have in
government. So everything from down to
like what's your performance plan look
like? Your performance plan should have
you know efficiency. It should have you
know some measured amount of risk-taking
in there. So things that again will
speed the pace of deployment and and uh
make sense. The third thing we're doing
is and this is again you guys asked me
you know how is this program different
from other programs. Um as we hire these
thousand engineers ultimately they will
live in various agencies right so uh Dr.
at CMS says, you know, it's like, look,
I need 75 engineers to do, you know,
kind of important projects there or
obviously Department of War, you know,
have lots of stuff. So, they're going to
live in those agencies. But what we're
not going to do, which is historically
where I think these programs have
failed, is if you drop these teams just
into the blob that is the federal
government, um they're going to have a
terrible experience. Uh and they're
going to get lost and they'll their two
years will literally go by without them
actually having accomplished anything.
So, our whole goal with this is keep
these teams together. So when I you know
what I'm what I'm hoping from Dr. Oz is
there's going to be a team of 75
engineers who are going to be a team and
they're going to work on the projects
that he thinks are the most important
projects and of course they have to
integrate with the existing CIO
organization because so much of what we
do has integration backends and all that
kind of stuff but we got to make sure
that that happens uh because otherwise
you know you hire a random you know
intern to and you plop them into an
organization and they get swallowed by
the beast basically. It's just it's it's
it's understandable why that happens.
So, we've got to think about the
organizational implications of bringing
people in and make sure they're set up
for success. And, you know, my
expectations are and certainly the
conversations that I've had with all the
agency heads are that they understand
that and they understand that for them
to achieve what they want to do, they
have to create the organizational
structure that uh enables these guys to
actually do what they're there for.
>> Yeah. Yeah, I think that this is another
thing that we could probably say from
firsthand experience is you come to a
big organization, you spend a long time,
maybe the first year of just getting to
know the lay of the land, who are the
people that you should talk to, etc.
It's a real challenge. It's a real
challenge being effective uh of actually
accomplishing anything. The amount of
time I've I mean, I've been to Bloomberg
and still experience.
>> Yeah, there's still I've been here 10
years and there's like who do I call?
It's just like the nature of large
organizations. I want to talk about um
career you know people who you say okay
like you need we need to do something
about the fact that all these people are
going to retire and there is this uh
pipeline etc. Setting aside optimal
levels of how big the federal workforce
should be etc. One thing that I could
see as a bit of a problem about
maintaining a career is if federal
workers do not feel that they are
respected in their jobs and there is
rhetoric that is um that you hear it's
like federal governments they you know
again oh they they don't have to they're
they're le some people it's like oh
they're leeches they're part of the deep
state they're all woke and they spend
money on this and that's waste but even
that spending looks like what I observe
is spending in the private sector etc.
And then, you know, there's at least
from this administration,
there's been these uh sort of seemingly
from the outside and probably from the
inside capriccious layoffs or arbitrary
layoffs. And so, if you respect this
workforce, then um how do how could you
possibly have just like cut so
arbitrarily? I mean, these are this is
what it seems like. When you think about
um building a life a talent pipeline, do
you think about this dimension and do
you agree with the sort of premise of
the question that it's a challenge that
no one is going to work at a place if
their bosses to some extent sort of
think they're uh you know do not respect
them?
>> Yeah. So the short answer is yes. like
absolutely this is a critical part of
making sure that the federal government
is an attractive place for the people
who are there and also the people who
you know we're trying to recruit in. So
I I got a million thoughts. Let me try
to see if I can uh keep them in the in
the time we have remaining. So um I'll
give tell you one thing. So just to back
up as you know I worked at Andre and
Horowitz and Ben Horowitz in my mind is
one of the you know best CEOs best
managers that I've ever learned from and
I I had worked for him for literally 10
years prior. So for 26 years of my life
I've had the benefit of learning from
Ben. The most important thing I learned
from him is exactly what you describe
which is when you have restructurings in
companies basically you have broken
trust with your employees. Okay. So uh
particularly in the startup context
right like you know when we were in
startups we personally recruited every
single person into that company and we
told them how we were going to conquer
the world and how awesome we were going
to be and we believed it. We weren't
like lying to them but it turns out we
were wrong. Like the market changed. We
didn't have enough money and and you
know we had to live through this in our
loud cloud ops war days. We laid we had
to lay a bunch of people off. And so
you've immediately broken trust with
those employees. So you are from that
day forward basically in a situation
where you have to rebuild that trust,
right? So you have to demonstrate to
them that you know it wasn't capriccious
and arbitrary and that you're not like
lying to them and a jerk, but that you
actually do care about them. And it
turns out through no fault of their own,
their next door neighbor who sat in the
cube next to them unfortunately lost
their job because like we couldn't
afford to pay them anymore. So I I I say
that only to say, look, I I recognize
that very clearly. I understand that.
And if you literally go back to like the
testimony I gave when I went through my
hearing, um I I said that very explicit.
I think that's important. Um that being
said, uh all all that being said, I
think look the way to think about let me
just give you the context of the
headcount reductions that happened in
the government because I think there is
in my mind at least some misinformation
out there that I think is worth talking
about. So it'll give you some numbers.
You know, you've got a very
sophisticated audience. U as of the end
of this year roughly about 317,000
people will have exited the federal
government. Okay. We started the year at
about 2.4 4 millionish roughly in terms
of civilian these are civilian employees
by the way so forget about the armed
services because my organization doesn't
touch that about 2.4 4 million civilian
employees will be roughly 2.1 million
civilian employees as of December 31st
of this year. Um at the same time we
hired about 66,000 employees. So on a
net basis call it 270 you know 260
270,000 roughly kind of net departures
from the government. If you go back to
that 317,000 number um the entire so 92
and a half% of those people took some
form of voluntary retirement. So we had
this thing called DRP deferred
resignation program. That was the v that
was literally half of it. 154,000 people
took that which was an eight-month
seance that we gave to people to
voluntarily leave government. Um and
then the rest of it was there are some
other programs. The acronyms aren't
relevant for your for your listeners.
They're called Vera and VSIP if people
want to look them up. Uh but those are
other voluntary kind of you know
retirement programs. Um and then only uh
seven and a half percent of people were
removed through either riffs or what we
call probationary employees which is in
the government if you've been if you've
been there for one or two years uh in
depending upon the job you're kind of
the closest thing to an atill employee
that we have in the federal government
and so there were about 7,000 of those
probationary employers who who were
removed and about 17,000 people who were
ultimately rift you know reductions
enforced as a result of restructurings.
So I say that number one not to I want
to be totally clear with your listeners
not to make light of any of this.
Obviously those are real people with
real jobs and real families and stuff
but the numbers again you know kind of
uh I think bear out what we tried to do
in the government which is tell people
that things were changing. Tell people
that you know we do have a different
view as to what you know we think the
federal government should be doing and
give people an opportunity to
voluntarily say okay this is not what I
signed up for which is a very noble
thing to do and say you know it's time
for me to go do something different. So
92 and 12% of the people who left the
government did so because they decided,
you know, this wasn't an environment
they wanted to be in. That being said,
now look, I totally agree with you,
which is we have to demonstrate to the
people that are there and to the people
who are coming in that uh, you know, we
obviously care about them and that we we
think they do valuable work and and and
I think that's the case for the vast
vast majority of people there do great
work. Like any organization, yes, there
are some people who are not doing great
work and we have a system that makes it
very hard to hold them accountable.
We're going to try to fix that. But
look, that's true of any organization.
And so I don't think it we're not it
doesn't make sense to kind of demean the
broad federal government based upon the
work of a few. Um but we have to do that
and and we also have to be honest and
transparent with our people which I
which I believe very strongly in is look
we can't be all things to all people
like we are running two trillion dollar
deficits. That's not sustainable. And so
look we got to be smarter. We have to
use technology to find ways to improve
efficiency. We have to think about if
we're doing 20 things are all 20 of them
still required do they still add value?
Because ultimately we're stewards of the
taxpayer dollars. Like this is not our
money we're spending. And so I think
it's incumbent upon everybody and this
is the message that I'm trying to get
across to my team and to the rest of
government is efficiency doesn't mean
just cutting costs. Efficiency means are
you thinking about delivering a better
service but doing so you know at or
below like what you do today because
you're thinking about organizational
changes. You're thinking about
technology like to me that is just like
quite frankly required of anybody in any
organization to do. And so that to me is
like what I'm trying to convey to
people. And yes, that means that there
may be some jobs that are impacted
because of technology, but those things
are going to happen whether you know
kind of, you know, we want them to
happen or not. The question is, do we
actually set up the workforce and do
training and do all the kinds of things
we need to do to make sure that people
have opportunities in light of what is a
very very rapidly changing, you know,
technological market.
>> So, I get that part of the problem that
you're trying to solve is an operational
one. this idea of like a cobalt
programmer who's been there for decades
and he retires and walks out the door
and no one knows how to do what he was
doing or no one understands the system
that he's basically had control over for
ages. But at the same time, you know,
we're talking about a decent amount of
turnover, a lot of new employees if this
goes the right way. How are you, I I
guess guiding for safety? Are there any
sort of like institutional guard rails
that you're putting in so that the
government doesn't actually end up
breaking things?
>> Yeah, I mean look, there are uh uh you
will hopefully uh appreciate this, but
look, there are a ton of institutional
guardrails. You know, in my mind, like
the problem is we have too many
institutional guardrails. And again, you
know, rational rational people may
disagree with me, but you know, I can
just tell you like the entire culture of
everything we do, any everybody I've
talked to in government and and luckily
we've had lots of kind of impact on
making change early on, everybody is
like we can't do that because of X,
right? And the answer is either because
like it's statutory and the honest
answer is when you dig and dig and dig,
the reality is it's not statutory. like
we've built up this like urban myth over
time that something is statutory or as I
mentioned because like I'm terrified
that I'm going to get a GAO report, an
inspector general report or a
congressional inquiry and like we we
have built such a compliance culture
that we are just literally like unable
to do anything that actually is kind of
modern and you know forward thinking in
terms of government. And so this is what
I'm this is what I'm trying to do. And
as I told you guys from the beginning
like yes this is not the private sector.
We're not going to take crazy risks.
We're not going to like go like put
everything on black, you know, in the
casino, but we can have a rational
conversation which is okay, like what
are the risks we're taking and what's
the upside? So, if you'll give me a
minute, let me give you a very very
tangible example for your listeners. So,
I mentioned to you that we handle
retirement services. Um, and it's a very
manual process and so like it takes us a
really long time to get people formally
retired. So, you quit from, you know,
you retire from the government on
September 30th. In the current process,
you know, it takes 60, 90, 120 days
sometimes for you to actually get a
check because we have this ridiculous
manually paper process that takes
forever to for us to calculate what are
you actually entitled to and to make
sure you're getting the right money and
all that stuff. So, that's a huge burden
on retirees, right? You've been getting
a paycheck every two weeks for the last
40 years and now I'm going to tell you
like, sorry, like go manage your cash
flow some other way while I'm doing
this. Like that's terrible in my mind
and it's a complete disservice and
completely disrespectful to people who
are retiring from the government. So we
have a process in the retirement
services thing called interim pay,
right? Which is as the name sounds,
right? The idea is okay, can we get you
some money on an interim basis that may
not be 100% accurate but at least helps
bridge this gap between when you when
you retire and when you get your actual
annuity check. Okay. So going into and
then couple this with we've got this
massive, you know, we we've had a lot of
exits in government. So the 317,000 I
mentioned, not all of those are
retirees, but like on average people, we
have about 100 to 150,000 exits a year.
So we're we're, you know, more than
double the number. So and as a result,
there's more than double the number of
retirees that are happening. So you've
got this terrible payable process, like
massive volumes, and we're just going to
make life miserable for all these people
who can't get money. So I asked the
team, I said, "Okay, how many people go
through interim pay today?" This is kind
of pre- our change. And it's about like
30% of people. And I was like, "Well,
what's the problem?" like, well, that's
how we've always done it. So, you know,
again, part of the answer was statutory,
which it's not it's not statutory. Um,
and they're like, well, there's huge
risk to the system because if we pay
somebody more and then they die between
the time we paid them their interim
payment and we get their actual annuity,
there may not be any assets left into
the estate and so we might compromise
the fidelity of the trust fund. Okay.
Now, keep in mind this is a $1.2
trillion trust fund that is actually
cash flow positive. So among trust funds
for retirement, it's actually fairly
rare, but we earn two and a half% on
government treasuries a year, which is
horrendously bad because we're only
allowed to invest in government
treasuries. Um, but not notwithstanding
that, it's actually still cash flow
positive and fully funded like almost
any any circumstance. So we finally went
through the math and I said, "Let's go
through the math and let's assume, you
know, we get it wrong x amount of time
and all this other stuff." And we we did
a bunch of math and I said, "Look, if
we're wrong a 100% of the time, it could
cost us a couple million dollars of
overpayments out of a $1.2 trillion
trust fund, but we can shrink from 90 to
120 days the time somebody gets a
payment to either 0 to 7 days if we put
more people through this interim pay
process." So, in my mind, like this is
just the most obvious thing to do and we
are doing it by the way, we decided to
do it. But like it's a great example at
least in my mind of where we have so
ingrained in the culture that risk any
kind of risk is bad without actually
people being willing to have the
conversation to say okay like what is
the cost of that risk relative to the
upside opportunity that that taking that
risk entails and I'm perfectly happy you
know I told them I said look you don't
need to protect me if it turns out you
know some congress person wants to yell
at me because like I took a modicum of
risk in order to like make you know
hundreds of thousands of retirees lives
better and not have to like take loans
out after they've given their career
service to the federal government. Like
I I'm totally fine defending that. I
think that's a perfectly rational
answer.
>> I have one last question and maybe I'll
sort of ask you a little bit to put your
VC hat on maybe because maybe you will
go back to VC when this rolls over. But
who knows? Someone who knows a lot a lot
about technology. So we had an episode
recently with Tyler Cowen. We talk about
one of the weird things. Yeah. Is that
you know the AI? We haven't even really
talked about AI. So there's my AI
question. AI the tech make you know
makes your jaws drop when you see it. On
the other hand the impact so far on the
economy or the real world is sort of
muted. It maybe is like you might have
given the capabilities you might have
expected more more revolutionary change.
And his thesis that he put forth was
like we're really not going to see that
sort of meaningful impactful diffusion
of the tech until we have organizations
that to some extent are built groundup
from AI that you know yes you can maybe
get some productivity gains here and
there by putting AI into some existing
workflow but that the real breakthroughs
will come from whether it's companies or
so forth that are truly AI native from
day one. I'm curious, you know, when you
think about, you know, again, going back
to the VC world, a does this feel
intuitive to you that the real deployers
will be AI native? And then does that
have any implications for like we're not
going to have a revolution? I guess
hopefully uh at the at the federal
level, we're not going to have a
complete destruction and starting over.
Does that have any implications then for
thinking about how AI will be diffused
within federal processes?
>> Yeah. So uh obviously yeah Tyler is a
brilliant guy so uh far for me to
disagree with him but let let me give
you just a couple thoughts on what he
said. So look I I I I guess I guess I
generally agree with most of what he
says which is um and this is true by the
way I think of adoption of most new
technologies which is we go to the
common use cases and we think about
incrementality as the first thing to do
it. So if you go way back when um Mark
Andre told me this so if it's if it's
made up I'll blame him. uh you know when
uh when we when we first when we first
had movies you know actual like you know
moving pictures they were just plays
basically that people filmed right so
like they they weren't like producing
them they weren't new content it was
literally just we we said wow we have
this cool thing called a camera let's
film a play and then go show it in a
thing now it's obviously that's not that
relevant to this conversation but my
point is just like we tend to go to
these very common incremental use cases
for things and so look I believe that if
you look at any major fortune 500
company, I guarantee you that every
single board conversation is what the
heck are you doing about AI and how do I
get 3 to 5 to 7% greater EPS growth uh
relative to last year because you can
fix my customer support problem or stuff
like that. So I think that's what's
happening right now. Um I do agree that
yes what often happens is then there
will be a new generation of companies
and we see this in the venture capital
world too already which is the most
obvious use cases that people did is
there's a ton of companies who have
customer support applications for AI and
there's a ton of companies who have you
know you know how do we help lawyers
read documents better using AI and
that's great and and those companies are
fantastic but the real breakthrough is
going to be yes like when someone says
okay we're not just going to make
salesforce.com more efficient but like
we're just going to rethink customer
relationship management with with an AI
first mentality and like the AI should
know who my customers are. It should
anticipate what I want to do and it
should send me emails and texts and say
like you haven't talked to this person
in 5 weeks and I just saw that they you
know spoke at this conference and they
talked about this and you know you're
not following up on it. So that's that's
where we will get and and I have no
doubt we will get there quite frankly
and and look I'm an optimist by nature.
You have to be to be in the venture
capital business. Um but yes I would
agree with him generally. I think that's
right. What does it mean for the federal
government? very simple which is that if
if the private sector is incremental the
federal government's going to be like
you know 100x incremental relative to
100x less incremental I guess is the
right way to describe it. Um but that's
in my mind that's okay. Like so again
I've told everybody in my team I'm not
asking you I don't want you to go build
like the 2040 AI plan because we have no
idea what the heck that's going to look
like. That's a total waste of our time.
What I want you to do is look at a
process you do today and figure out can
you use an AI tool to help you get three
five 10% greater you know uh performance
out of your organization right so we do
a ton of I'll give a very simple example
we do a ton of regulation writing
obviously because you know that's what
we're ultimately in the business of
government is producing regulations um
and we're about to put out a regulation
we got 40,000 public comments on this
regulation we literally assigned each
one of those 40,000 comments to a person
to read and to draft a response
Now, to me, that's just insane, right?
And I'm not saying that like the AI we
should just like the AI should do it,
but like clearly AI is very good at, you
know, summarization at, you know,
helping people think about stuff like
that's like that's all we if we did that
like we would unleash so much creativity
and opportunity to govern. If we just
said take the very basic stuff we're
doing today and use your, you know,
companion chat GPT or XAI, whatever your
favorite tool is, and just, you know, ek
out a little bit of productivity. So
anyways, that's how I think about it. So
yes, look, government is not going to
we're not going to transform government
overnight, but what we're trying to do
and what the US tech force is trying to
do is can we get the right people in
here who understand those things so that
we start to drive ourselves forward so
we don't wake up 5 years from now and
find that we're the last dinosaur
basically and you know the world has
passed us by. So, you sort of mentioned
it just then, but can you talk at all
about what kind of platforms you're
using currently or what kind of models
because I, you know, I'm sure some
people would find it very ironic if the
federal government was using deepseek or
something like [laughter] that. And I'm
curious whether you lean towards like an
open- source thing or a closed source
thing because of privacy concerns.
>> Yeah. So right now the honest answer is
we're at the very very early stages
which is most of what people are doing
it literally this may make your head
spin because it made mine. Um until
about a month ago we did not even have
chat GPT on our government desktops. So
like you know I literally would sit
there on my phone and ask chat GPT
questions my person my personal phone
just to be totally clear on my personal
phone and uh and then I would go back to
my work laptop and do stuff. So as of
about a month or two ago we actually
have chat GBT. We have XAI now. Uh we
might even have we might even have a
third one. I don't even know. Oh and of
course we're we're the government's a
big Microsoft uh client so we have
Microsoft Copilot. Um so that's kind of
the state for an individual user in
government. That's basically the state
that is like the state of you know kind
of advanced automation basically is we
literally have it on our laptops now for
the development work that's happening.
Um you're absolutely right which is look
there are major security issues that we
all have to think about. Um, look, I'm a
big believer, as you can imagine, in
open source and certainly our firm,
Andre Norit, you know, you've you've
seen Mark make lots of public comments
about this. So, um, I have no I think
the government will use open source and
can appropriately do so. Clearly, we're
not going to use like the Deep Seek
commercial version, but you know, so
much of that stuff is open source and if
you bring it in, you know, to your
environment and you make sure that you
got the right security standards, uh,
you know, there's tremendous value to
develop on open source. But I I would
just just to give you a sense of where
we are, I would say we're very very
early in that journey in government. I
have one last very quick question, which
is how much of a constraint is drug
testing on new hires nowadays?
>> You know, I wish I had a really smart
answer to your question. Uh, I don't
know the answer to that. I have not seen
it. It hasn't, I say, it hasn't shown up
as some like big red flag where we're
losing people in the recruiting pipeline
because of that. Um, but the very honest
answer is I don't know, but I will find
out. I think that's a good we should I'm
actually very curious about drugs in the
workforce in general. We should do more
on that. Scott Cooper, [laughter] thank
you. No, for real. For real. I I you
hear about it. My barber was talking
about how hard it was to hire because
he's like everyone is sort of
>> if somebody I would just say Joe, if
somebody if somebody clips that and puts
it on the court's [laughter] gonna be
Joe is very I'm very I'm very curious
about drugs in the workforce. That's
going to be a great clip. Yeah,
>> we'll get our producer will clip it.
We'll we'll get ahead we'll get ahead of
that one. Scott Cooper, thank you so
much for coming on. It was really really
appreciate your take your time. Very
helpful and uh we'd love to stay in
touch and hear more about how these
projects evolve during your tenure.
>> Great. Thank you both for your time. I
appreciate it.
>> I thought that was great. I love I love
these conversations. I mean because I
think they just I guess the sociology of
them, right? Like that's what these
conversations are really about. And
especially, you know, we talk about some
of these pathologies that replicate from
the public to private sector, etc. that
are both like they're really interesting
sociological questions.
>> The Department of War needs to get a
bunch of ping pong tables and free
snacks to recruit the most cuttingedge
tech workers, right?
>> With a matcha bar. Yeah. I wonder I
wonder if they're experiment. We should
have asked that whether they have a
matcha on tap at the office and whether
that could move the dial.
>> But it's also interesting again there's
that cultural sociological aspect. But
it does apply to large bureaucracies and
private organizations. And I think
everyone at some point in their lives
will experience this type of um
unnecessary paperwork, whether it's in
their jobs or when they're applying for
a driver's license or whatever.
>> Yeah. No, you know what? Like this is
like where I have like the sympathy for
like sort of like modern life, large
complicated things. How can the
individual with our I mean, how could we
do how could you navigate insurance? How
can you navigate all this stuff? It like
drives you crazy at any scale. I do
think, you know, and this came up also
in our conversations with Jennifer and I
I believe it that there is a lot there
is more to a career than pay, right?
>> But I also think that's like a very real
issue, especially when you're talking
about the tech workforce specifically
where we know you can just like make an
absolute fortune and in many cases you
can make a fortune as a very young
person. you'll be in the right company
at the right time and you many overnight
multi-millionaires in Silicon Valley.
So, it's not just the late stage,
although that's where it becomes the
most obvious. I really the pay is a very
tricky situation.
>> Well, I do think the emphasis on time
constraints for the tech force. Um,
yeah, that's really interesting and
that's kind of a shift again, a cultural
shift from the way people have perceived
government jobs for a long time. And I
can imagine, you know, like if you're a
young tech worker, maybe you're having
trouble getting into the private sector,
you know, just last year, no, two years
ago, remember there was the wave of like
layoffs, right?
>> Yeah. Absolutely.
>> And now everyone is recruiting because
of AI. But
>> well, I mean, no, I mean, you're to your
point like there even like there are
many talented tech people, they're not
right there in the sweet spot. We even
know that's not what it used to be. So I
can imagine like you go to the
government for two years and it's it's
an educational process and you can take
some of that knowledge away from you
when you then go into the private
sector. Although that also opens up the
question of uh rotating doors between
the government and private companies.
But maybe that's a topic for a different
day.
>> I just add I do think there is and it's
not just this administration but I think
it's been very notable at least with
some parts of the administration or some
parts of the rhetoric. you there's this
sort of like vilification of bureaucrats
which is again sort of a long time thing
like bureaucrats has sort of been a kind
of a pjor I mean a bureaucrat's a real
thing
>> word
>> anyway I do think that's an issue and I
also think uh you know like maybe we
should just bring back civil service
exams everywhere and if you could no
seriously and if you can pass this test
you can get a job like it's Lindy you
know it's like famous you know go back
thousands of years in China it's like
the big time
>> I was about to say do you know about the
Chinese civil service exams. Those were
so interesting um and crazy.
>> Shall we leave it there?
>> Let's leave it there.
>> This has been another episode of the Odd
Thoughts podcast. I'm Tracy Aloway. You
can follow me at Tracy Aloway.
>> And I'm Jill Weisenthal. You can follow
me at the stalwart. Follow our guest
Scott Cooper. He's s Cooper. Follow our
producers Kerman Rodriguez at Kerman
Dash Bennett at Dashbot and Kale Brooks
at Kalebrooks.
>> And for more OddLots content, please
check out our daily newsletter. You can
find that at bloomberg.com/odlotss.
>> And you can join fellow listeners in
conversation 247 in our Discord,
discord.gg/odlotss.
>> And if you enjoyed this conversation,
then please like or leave a comment. Or
better yet, subscribe.
>> Thanks for watching.
[music]
>> [music]